2016/09-01--announcing-practical-es6-and-modular-javascript-series/introduction.markdown, before:

**TL;DR** I'm working on a series of books that explore *Modular JavaScript* in five instalments. **I'm launching [a crowdfunding campaign 🚀][campaign] to help finance the endeavor.** Drafts of the first book, *Practical ES6*, are publicly available under [HTML][toc] format and under an [AsciiDoc source code][repo] repository on GitHub.

A while after I published [JavaScript Application Design][jsad] with Manning Publishing, I felt like writing again. JavaScript Application Design was a wonderful thing. When the pile of books arrived at my doorstep, I could finally point at a a physical thing and say "I made that" -- it was such a thrill.

Half of the book was dedicated to explaining how to lay out a build process. Most examples in those chapters relied on Grunt. Even though the explanations weren't tightly coupled to Grunt, as you could easily translate the concepts to other build tools like `Make` or `npm run`, Grunt was pervasive enough that the book had an appendix on how Grunt works, another on Gulp and `npm run`, and a few explanations of Grunt sprinkled all over the book. The other half of the book talked about modular design, REST API design, testing, asynchronous JavaScript, and how to uphold quality in applications in general. You can [look over the table of contents][jsadtoc] for a better idea of how that book was structured.

This time, I'm diving deeper.

> *Let’s improve our collective understanding of writing robust, well-tested, modular JavaScript code.*

# A New Book Series 📚

I've been working on a new book _-- alongside O'Reilly Media --_ for a while now. I originally proposed writing a single book, where I'd cover ES6 language features, modularity, universality, testing, and deployment: everything you need to know to build robust JavaScript applications. As I thought about it, however, I realized it could face the same issues I had faced with JavaScript Application design. Instead of having to explain Grunt throughout, I would have to explain ES6 throughout this one, incrementally teaching different bits of the feature set as I went. I decided to turn the book into something more modular, just as I would when faced with the same problem in code.

As a result, the idea for a **Modular JavaScript** book series was born.

[<img src='https://i.imgur.com/saRiGkb.png' alt='The Modular JavaScript book series glowing over the desktop of an eager learner.' />][coverlink]

> 💳 **Participate** in the [crowdfunding campaign][campaign] on *Indiegogo*  
> 🐤 **Share** a [message on *Twitter*][tweet] or within your social circles  
> 🌩 **Amplify** the [announcement on social media][clap] via *Thunderclap*  
> 📓 **Purchase** the [Early Release][er] from *O'Reilly*  
> 👏 **Contribute** to the [source code repository][contrib] on *GitHub*  
> 🦄 **Read** the online [HTML version of the book][toc] on *Pony Foo*  

[jsad]: /books/javascript-application-design "JavaScript Application Design: A Build-First Approach"
[jsadtoc]: https://github.com/buildfirst/buildfirst#table-of-contents "Table of Contents for JavaScript Application Design on GitHub"
[repo]: /s/practical-es6-repo "mjavascript/practical-es6 on GitHub"
[clap]: /s/modular-javascript-thunderclap "Back the Thunderclap campaign!"
[tweet]: /s/modular-javascript-tweet "Send out a tweet promoting the Modular JavaScript launch"
[toc]: /s/practical-es6-read "Practical ES6: A Practical Dive into ES6 and Maintainable JavaScript Modules"
[contrib]: /s/practical-es6-repo-contrib "mjavascript/practical-es6 on GitHub"
[campaign]: /s/modular-javascript-indiegogo "Indiegogo campaign for Modular JavaScript: A Pragmatic JS Book Series"
[er]: /s/practical-es6-early-release "Modular JavaScript: Practical ES6"
[cover]: https://i.imgur.com/saRiGkb.png
[coverlink]: https://mjavascript.com "Let’s improve our collective understanding of writing robust, well-tested, modular JavaScript code."

Commit message:

[sync] Updating “announcing-practical-es6-and-modular-javascript-series” article. 🍐

2016/09-01--announcing-practical-es6-and-modular-javascript-series/introduction.markdown, after:

**TL;DR** I'm working on a series of books that explore *Modular JavaScript* in five instalments. **I'm launching [a crowdfunding campaign 🚀][campaign] to help finance the endeavor.** Drafts of the first book, *Practical Modern JavaScript*, are publicly available under [HTML][toc] format and under an [AsciiDoc source code][repo] repository on GitHub.

A while after I published [JavaScript Application Design][jsad] with Manning Publishing, I felt like writing again. JavaScript Application Design was a wonderful thing. When the pile of books arrived at my doorstep, I could finally point at a a physical thing and say "I made that" -- it was such a thrill.

Half of the book was dedicated to explaining how to lay out a build process. Most examples in those chapters relied on Grunt. Even though the explanations weren't tightly coupled to Grunt, as you could easily translate the concepts to other build tools like `Make` or `npm run`, Grunt was pervasive enough that the book had an appendix on how Grunt works, another on Gulp and `npm run`, and a few explanations of Grunt sprinkled all over the book. The other half of the book talked about modular design, REST API design, testing, asynchronous JavaScript, and how to uphold quality in applications in general. You can [look over the table of contents][jsadtoc] for a better idea of how that book was structured.

This time, I'm diving deeper.

> *Let’s improve our collective understanding of writing robust, well-tested, modular JavaScript code.*

# A New Book Series 📚

I've been working on a new book _-- alongside O'Reilly Media --_ for a while now. I originally proposed writing a single book, where I'd cover ES6 language features, modularity, universality, testing, and deployment: everything you need to know to build robust JavaScript applications. As I thought about it, however, I realized it could face the same issues I had faced with JavaScript Application design. Instead of having to explain Grunt throughout, I would have to explain ES6 throughout this one, incrementally teaching different bits of the feature set as I went. I decided to turn the book into something more modular, just as I would when faced with the same problem in code.

As a result, the idea for a **Modular JavaScript** book series was born.

[<img src='https://i.imgur.com/saRiGkb.png' alt='The Modular JavaScript book series glowing over the desktop of an eager learner.' />][coverlink]

> 💳 **Participate** in the [crowdfunding campaign][campaign] on *Indiegogo*  
> 🐤 **Share** a [message on *Twitter*][tweet] or within your social circles  
> 🌩 **Amplify** the [announcement on social media][clap] via *Thunderclap*  
> 📓 **Purchase** the [Early Release][er] from *O'Reilly*  
> 👏 **Contribute** to the [source code repository][contrib] on *GitHub*  
> 🦄 **Read** the online [HTML version of the book][toc] on *Pony Foo*  

[jsad]: /books/javascript-application-design "JavaScript Application Design: A Build-First Approach"
[jsadtoc]: https://github.com/buildfirst/buildfirst#table-of-contents "Table of Contents for JavaScript Application Design on GitHub"
[repo]: /s/practical-modern-javascript-repo "mjavascript/practical-modern-javascript on GitHub"
[clap]: /s/modular-javascript-thunderclap "Back the Thunderclap campaign!"
[tweet]: /s/modular-javascript-tweet "Send out a tweet promoting the Modular JavaScript launch"
[toc]: /s/practical-modern-javascript-read "Practical Modern JavaScript: Dive into ES6 and the future of JavaScript"
[contrib]: /s/practical-modern-javascript-repo-contrib "mjavascript/practical-modern-javascript on GitHub"
[campaign]: /s/modular-javascript-indiegogo "Indiegogo campaign for Modular JavaScript: A Pragmatic JS Book Series"
[er]: /s/practical-modern-javascript-early-release "Modular JavaScript: Practical Modern JavaScript"
[cover]: https://i.imgur.com/saRiGkb.png
[coverlink]: https://mjavascript.com "Let’s improve our collective understanding of writing robust, well-tested, modular JavaScript code."
