# Contributing Guidelines

Oh, hey. We're stoked that you're considering to contribute! 🎉

# Architecture and Motivation

Every article made available on this repository has been published on [ponyfoo.com][pf] as well. Edits contributed to the repository are promptly mirrored on the website, and vice versa. This helps reduce the time spent between a reader proposing a change and us adopting said change.

For convenience, every article on the Git repository comes with [an autogenerated `readme.markdown`][readme-example] that closely mirrors the [article on the website][web-example]. Changes to the `readme.markdown` file for an article won't be taken into account, so please avoid editing them.

Articles in this repository are organized by year, and then presented under their own directories, following a `MM-DD--slug` pattern. Inside each of these directories, you'll find the aforementioned `readme.markdown`, and a series of files you can edit.

Feel free to edit any of the following files. We're interested in fixing typographic errors, as well as any instances of misinformation.

We also welcome a discussion about other edits you deem appropriate.

## `metadata.json`

Contains a bunch of information about an article, such as its MongoDB document `id`, its `author`, its `title` _(supports any Markdown)_, its `slug`, relevant `tags`, and the `heroImage` which is used behind the title.

```json
{
  "id": "57783d1df2a76b840314377d",
  "author": "543d222f4683586910034197",
  "title": "<div>How Pony Foo is ridiculously over-engineered</div><div><em>— and why that is awesome</em></div>",
  "slug": "most-over-engineered-blog-ever",
  "tags": [
    "side-projects",
    "ponyfoo"
  ],
  "heroImage": "https://i.imgur.com/IF2aFsB.jpg"
}
```

## `summary.markdown`

A brief summary of an article, used in some places such as the article list on the home page. The summary is computed automatically from `teaser` and `introduction` if this file is left empty.

## `teaser.markdown`

A teaser indicating what the article will discuss. Goes right below the title on the website.

## `editor-notes.markdown`

A brief note from the editor outlining the value in the article and perhaps some notes about the author.

## `introduction.markdown`

The first part of the article. Also used in emails sent when the article is first published.

## `body.markdown`

The main body of the article. Doesn't get included in emails, but it's displayed in RSS readers, the article page, and the rendered previews on this repository.

[pf]: https://ponyfoo.com
[readme-example]: https://github.com/ponyfoo/articles/blob/master/2016/07-02--most-over-engineered-blog-ever/readme.markdown
[web-example]: https://ponyfoo.com/articles/most-over-engineered-blog-ever
